---
title: v1.1.0 to v1.2.0
sidebar_position: 2
---

In order to efficiently query the database over the enormous amount of transactions and messages,
we've implemented PostgreSQL [Table Partitioning](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/ddl-partitioning.html) feature
starting from the BDjuno `v1.2.0` which turns the `transaction` and `message` tables into partitioned
tables and creates partitions according to the `partition_size` set up in the [config.yaml file](../config/config.md#database). 

### Migration to table partitioning
#### Update branch
Merge tag to your BDjuno branch according to the chain's cosmos sdk base and fix all merge conflicts. 
Stop and upgrade the bdjuno version to `v1.2.0` (don't restart it yet):
```
git fetch --tags
git checkout <your chain base>
git checkout -b merge/v1.2.0
```

Then, for cosmos sdk v0.44.x and later:
```
git merge v1.2.0
```
For stargate:
```
git merge v1.2.0-stargate
```

#### Clone the migration script

We prepared a [script](https://github.com/forbole/go-migrate) for migrating the data from 
the original `transaction` & `message` tables to the new partitioned tables:
```
git clone https://github.com/forbole/go-migrate
```

#### Environment Setup
1. Create the `.env` file in the same directory of the script, with psql connection credentials along with the configs for migration and partition. Here's an example:
```
PGUSER=psql_user_name
PGPASSWORD=psql_password

PGHOST=localhost
PGPORT=5432

PGDATABASE=bdjuno

BATCH=5000  // How many rows of transaction table to be migrated per batch
PARTITION_SIZE=100000 // The number of block heights per partition
```
:::caution
The PARTITION_SIZE configured in this file should be consistent with the desired setup in your [`config.yaml` file](../config/config.md).
:::

2. Add custom account address parser in `types/accountParser.go` if any or leave the array empty if there's no custom address parse. Take desmos chain as an example:
```go
var CustomAccountParser = []string{
	"sender", "receiver", "user", "counterparty", "blocker", "blocked",
}
```

#### Prepare tables
```
cd go-migrate
go run main.go prepare-tables
```
The above command will allow you to: 
  - Rename the tables: `transaction` to `transaction_old`, `message` to `message_old`
  - Rename the indexes: indexes of `transaction_old` and `message_old` tables will be added `_old` tags
  - Create new empty tables `transaction` & `message` with partitioning enabled and new indexes

#### Restart BDjuno
Once the tables are ready, restart the upgraded BDjuno which will start inserting into the new transaction and message tables.

#### Start migrating data
```
go run main.go migrate
```
The above command will allow you to: 
  - Read from `transaction_old` table and insert into the new `transaction` and `message` tables by batch
  (the size of batch needs to be configured in the [.env file](#environment-setup))
  - Drop the old function `messages_by_address` and create a new one

#### Migration completed
Let the script run until it says the migration is completed. For safety reason it does __not__ drop the old tables `transaction_old` and `message_old`. 
You might want to drop them after the data consistency is verified.

#### Revert
In any case that the migration fails, you can always drop the new `transaction` & `message` tables and alter the old tables back.
A simple SQL script is in the `alter_back.txt` file. When the tables are altered back, install and run your previous BDjuno branch, and it 
will continue to parse from the height before the migration started.